SCU	0	5	Chemical properties however , describe matter based on its ability to change into matter with different properties .
SCU	0	5	What is unique is that individuals are able to observe certain forms of matter using their senses while other
SCU	0	5	, we learn the definition of matter , its properties , and matter relates to energy .
SCU	0	5	Chemical properties of matter are characterized by their ability to change into a new substance with different properties .
SCU	0	5	The chemical properties involve changing the matter into a new kind of matter with different properties .
SCU	1	5	is that individuals are able to observe certain forms of matter using their senses while other forms are not so easily observed
SCU	1	5	All matter has the ability to be detected and measured .
SCU	1	5	We can detect matter .
SCU	1	5	Matter can be detected and measured .
SCU	1	5	Some types of matter are easily observable with the senses but
SCU	2	5	In What is Matter ?
SCU	2	5	, mainly focused on the topic of matter and its components .
SCU	2	5	, the matter the object is made up of
SCU	2	5	Matter is what makes up all objects or substances
SCU	2	5	Matter is all the objects and substances that take up space around us .
SCU	3	4	takes up space defined as volume and
SCU	3	4	and contains both volume and mass .
SCU	3	4	and takes up space volume .
SCU	3	4	because it contains volume and mass
SCU	4	4	For example , its shape , size , malleability , and density are all properties we can observe without fundamentally changing the matter .
SCU	4	4	Examples of physical properties are : density , ductility , malleability , boiling point , melting point , electrical conductivity , and solubility .
SCU	4	4	For example , clay can be molded into different shapes and sizes
SCU	4	4	Examples of physical property are malleability , boiling point , melting point , solubility , and others .
SCU	5	4	Matter is identified as being present everywhere and in all substances .
SCU	5	4	Properties are used to help us identify matter .
SCU	5	4	The physical properties are those that can be observed without changing the matter itself .
SCU	5	4	the text gives of types of matter that are easy to identify with sight and touch senses
SCU	6	4	However , a chemical property requires the observer to change the essential , atomic identity of the matter .
SCU	6	4	as the object is no longer made of the same matter
SCU	6	4	that matter can be broken down into physical properties and chemical properties
SCU	6	4	because it systematically changes the matter itself
SCU	7	3	; broken down there are two different kinds of mechanical energy .
SCU	7	3	The two kinds of mechanical energy are : kinetic and potential .
SCU	7	3	Mechanical energy comes in two forms , kinetic and potential .
SCU	8	3	, and explains by applying fire to the paper and letting it burn , the ash , gas
SCU	8	3	paper burns , the paper 's atomic make-up is changed and it
SCU	8	3	For example , paper burning into ash and irons ability to rust .
SCU	9	3	that if the physical properties such as the size and shape of an object changes , the chemical properties does not change
SCU	9	3	Another property of matter is energy .
SCU	9	3	A physical property is something we can observe without changing the essential , atomic identity of the matter .
SCU	10	3	Dust mites are too small for the naked eye but can be found in furniture and rugs , and air argues it can be felt with help of the wind , bending the tree branches .
SCU	10	3	Common examples are solids like a bed and a bug , liquids like water and milk , and gas like air and smoke .
SCU	10	3	Trees , rocks , animals , dust mites and air are all considered examples of matter .
SCU	11	3	It is important to know .
SCU	11	3	The author of this passage titled What is Matter ?
SCU	11	3	Matter is anything that has mass
SCU	12	2	The difference between physical and chemical change is that physical change only relates to the size and shape of the object , the matter the
SCU	12	2	There is also a physical and chemical change that exists in matter .
SCU	13	2	To classify matter one must identify the physical and chemical properties .
SCU	13	2	Scientists classify matter based on its physical and chemical properties .
SCU	14	2	The primary difference between a physical and chemical change is the changing of the substance into a new matter in a chemical change .
SCU	14	2	Physical properties can occur without changing the identity or nature of the matter .
SCU	15	2	but the molding does not change the substances in clay .
SCU	15	2	The author references clay as an object that is malleable as it has the ability to take different forms by pressing or pounding on it .
SCU	16	2	Energy can only be transferred from one object or system to another .
SCU	16	2	Although you can not see or touch energy
SCU	17	2	The passage , What is Matter
SCU	17	2	because it does have mass and take up space
SCU	18	1	Physical properties can be observed without having to change the make-up , or identity of the matter .
SCU	19	1	Matter can be classified by two separate properties : physical and chemical .
SCU	20	1	that energy can not be destroyed it moves from one object or system to another
SCU	21	1	Physical and chemical properties are the two main types of properties used to classify matter .
SCU	22	1	Physical properties are observed without changing the identity of the object .
SCU	23	1	, and all matter has it .
SCU	24	1	that energy can be transferred between objects but can not be created or destroyed
SCU	25	1	although it can not be seen or touched
SCU	26	1	, all matter has it .
